Joe Jacobson, right?
Joe Joseph?
Well, what's your actual... Yeah, Joe's name is Jacobson.
Joseph, and your usable initial?
And... And you're young.
Why do you say that?
Well, because I'm... Thirty-one.
Thirty-one.
Is that young?
That's young.
My background is... I was out of college with your report, so...
My background's in physics, so as a physicist, that's all.
Well, and I know it because you are working in an area that has kind of anticipated dramatic changes.
Anyways, there's a great story in Cuneiform about, you probably know this, but in Alexandria, they would solicit texts from around the world, and with the promise that they would copy them.
It's in Chapter 2 of my book.
Is it?
Yeah.
And they keep it caught in the originals.
Keep the originals back.
You know what the original source for that story is?
Tom.
Galen.
Now, one of the things I wanted to do in The Gentle Madness is not only tell the great stories, but... And this is in Gentle Madness.
This is in my book.
I've got to read it.
The Gentle Madness.
It's just in bookstores now.
Everywhere, yeah.
It's been out since 1995.
It was a finalist last year for the National Book Predicts Circle.
Okay.
And this new book is basically a companion volume to that.
It's got a gorgeous knockout dust jacket with the door ingredient of the book pool.
You've probably seen it.
I mean, it's really... The Globe did a huge story on it last year.
I don't read The Globe, unfortunately.
I read The Times.
I
Just a bit before Gutenberg, I guess in 1313, was Wayne Chen, who actually had the whole system that Gutenberg had.
It wasn't metal type, it was ceramic type, but it was movable, and he had a press and so forth.
But the interesting thing is the book that he published was, in 1313, was the history of technology, which I thought was great.
How do you spell this guy's name?
Wayne Chen.
Wayne?
I believe it's W-E-N-G-Chen.
And the translation is The History of Technology?
The History of Technology.
That's the kind of detail I love.
And I do have a book, The History of the Discovery of Printing in China, on the Columbia University Press.
It must be in there, right?
I would assume it would be in there.
The History of Technology.
The problem with the Chinese printing, of course, is the characters, and how many...
Right.
Well, that's why people said that Gutenberg went to metal, or that the Europeans embedded metal in the first place, is that a Roman character is much smaller than a Chinese character.
You need more detail, and you can't really support that in a San Seren, in Nigeria.
That's one reason that's citing it.
It's amazing when you look at Gutenberg's type that the mixture of tin, antimonium, lead that he used,
Has any of his type survived?
Yeah, yeah.
Is that right?
Yeah, people have recently done spectroscopy on his type.
I didn't know the type survived.
Yeah, the metal orgy is almost identical to what is used up until a few years ago, which is amazing.
Did he also have to invent an ink?
Yeah, he invented ink.
He invented ink, metal matrix in the press,
Right, but the ink, you needed an ink that had good sticking problems, but really the Chinese already 2,500 years before that had reasonable.
How many years?
2,500 years before that had developed the process.
Had reasonable inks, right?
Reasonable what?
Inks.
And anyway, let me tell you a bit about what we're up to.
I actually have a question for you that I'll ask and everybody asks me, and the question is, why a book?
Why don't you tell me what you're opening up here?
Oh, this is just a notebook, but I'm going to just show you a few film clips of stuff that we're doing down there.
What we're developing is something called
and it's described in some of those articles, is called electronic ink.
Electronic ink.
Electronic ink, right.
What it is, is a real printable ink, like a silkscreenable ink.
We can silkscreen it onto an arbitrary surface, but now this ink has something special inside of it.
We can address it in an electric field.
So, the idea is to
start with a piece of paper, print a couple of layers of ink that we've developed.
And then, instead of printing letters, we're going to actually print an electronic display.
The reason we thought about this project was because of thinking about a book.
And there are many other uses for this ink.
We've got a whole range of projects that we're working on with this material.
from shoes that display how far you run, to watch bands that display your email, to clothing that changes.
But the motivation was, in fact, in a book.
And the reason is that... The primary motivation was in producing a book.
Well, right.
The original motivation came from thinking about how do you make an electronic book that looks and feels like a real hardcover book
It's got several hundred real paper pages in it.
But nonetheless, we want to make each page an electronic display.
And that's a very tough problem because most displays, even this flat display, are not flexible.
You're talking about the flat display on the screen.
Well, let's say this display, for instance.
This display here costs about $1,000, OEM cost.
It's a nice display, but the price is much too high if you want several hundred of these.
Also, it's too thick to make a book.
What we need is something we can actually put on paper, and so that's why we invented this ink system.
Ink system?
Yes, this electronic ink system.
Let me give you an idea here.
just open this up what we're talking about here let's see my apologies by the way this morning i the time that i had down when we chatted on the phone was 9 30 and i never looked at uh
I was here until about 4 last night trying to get him a couple of things out.
Okay, so this is... Tell me what you're displaying now, if you like.
Okay, I'm going to open this up in March.
I see eight pages.
You're going to see one in a second.
Okay.
So this is the idea for a book.
We call it the e-book.
Yeah, you can call it...
electronic book it's fine and again the idea was we wanted to think of a way to make such a real hardcover book that had several hundred real paper pages in it on the spine you could leaf through a few thousand titles find one you like press a button wait 30 seconds open this how are you going to leaf through it with your fingers or with a machine
Okay, on the spine would be a couple of buttons here that you could leaf through and different titles would come up.
When you find one you like, let's say King Lear, you press a button, wait 30 seconds, open it, and now you're reading King Lear on real paper page.
It's all loaded into this book?
Loaded into this book, right.
So it already has a menu of X number of titles loaded into it.
That's right.
Contained in microchips or some such.
All right.
It contained either in a flash memory or a magneto-resistant drive, for instance, that have very high storage capacity.
So the technology is already there?
For the storage, it's there.
But the question is, how do you put new text onto paper itself?
When we print paper, it's static.
It's not changing.
What we developed is this ink material.
Everything I'm going to tell you is all done in-house.
We don't take things from outside.
This is an idea of what this ink looks like.
These are little micro particles that are about the size of a grain of laser toner.
This is under the microscope.
Inside is a system that we can affect with an electric field.
This gives an idea of, these are some photomicrographs.
These are ink.
This is the same ink here.
And what we've done here is just a... You're pointing at the blue ink on the left.
The blue ink and the white ink.
This is the picture of the exact same patch of ink.
Okay.
But what we've done is, in this case, we've put an electric field of one type here, and here we've put an electric field of another type.
So the ink itself, once it's printed, is mutable.
We can change its color just by putting an electric field.
Well, printed, you're using, in a futuristic sense, print being something that's permanent, right?
Well, no, this is ink.
These are ink particles, and here, this is an idea of what we can do.
This is a display that we've...
screened or stencil printed onto a piece of paper.
We can actually flip this on and off in an electric field.
Let me show you what this is.
This gives an idea of what this looks like.
This is our ink that we're in an electric field.
So we're switching our ink on and off.
And so you can imagine a page that goes from all white to blue, to white to blue, or we can have patterns, for instance.
And it will be on a piece of paper, or purportedly a piece of paper?
This is on a piece of paper.
You will have the feel of a piece of paper.
Well, this one I showed you was on a real piece of paper.
This is a paper that just went out about a week ago.
This paper here?
This is a scientific paper.
This is from a scientific paper.
Is this something I can access and read someplace?
Yes.
My book is two years away, I understand, so don't worry about it.
Okay.
I can send this to you soon.
If you would.
Would you?
I mean, you have to trust me.
I understand.
We're under the firm of lots of different companies.
I'll get this to you soon.
Okay.
Do you have a card, by the way?
Okay, so in a large way we're really in the chemistry business.
We're in the ink business of making these very special inks that can do strange things like this.
Here's just an idea of
Now, we set out to do an ink that can change only very slowly, and we quickly discovered that we can make our ink change quickly at about 20 hertz.
We actually, as described in that book, in that little paper I gave you on the last book, we actually can make things move fast enough that we can think about books where you would open the book and then
things would move on the surface of the book, like characters.
As you're watching it?
As you're watching it, right.
As you're looking at it.
As you're looking at it, right.
This just gives another idea of... What is that we're looking at?
This is a little... It's a little... I'll tell you what, I don't have a card, but what I'll do, I'll send you a copy of my book.
That would be tremendous.
Straight up, straight up.
Honorable?
You bet.
And that way you don't have to go looking for it, and that will remind you.
Sounds great.
Send me a paper, you know, when it's clear and fine.
I will certainly get it out here.
Okay, good.
Okay.
I'll get the book out this afternoon.
Send it here.
That would be great.
Here, let me, yeah.
Yeah, great.
Super.
Make a specific book.
Right.
Multi-pixel display.
This just gives an idea of how fast we can change things on the surface.
This is printed on a glass slide, because that's what we're running this experiment on.
But again, we can print this, as we showed in this paper, that we can print it on anything, including real paper.
Let me just show you.
I don't want to go into too much detail of the chemistry, but here's another
thing that we made.
This is using this kind of ink.
And what we've made here is something called the reversible printer.
And the idea is we can print something onto a sheet of paper and then take the same piece of paper, feed it back into a printer, and print something completely new on that same piece of paper.
It's like a negative, is what it is.
A photographic negative?
Well, the text just happens to be inverted here.
But no, the real point is this.
It says MIT on it.
And it's going to go through twice.
The first time is going to blank.
What's it going through?
This is a special printer that we built.
And the criterion is, in this printer, there's no ink in this printer.
There's no toner.
There's no chemical.
Nothing is ever added to this printer.
Nonetheless, we can blank out what's on that page.
And then when we feed this through the printer a second time, we can print something completely new.
on the same piece of paper.
That's a very strange thing.
You could think about taking... Well, pardon me, can I just ask... Please.
...the adjective reversible applies to what?
Applies to the ink that is embedded into this piece of paper already.
Okay.
Reversible meaning the process is reversible.
ink's color is reversible.
Not reversible in terms of what I was saying.
That's how I was interpreting the word reversible.
No, no.
I see what you're saying.
So I was totally screwed up.
So this gives an idea that we can put a completely new image onto the same piece of paper.
It's a reversible process.
It's a reversible process, right.
Now, you could think of a bad way to do this.
You could think about taking this printed text here and soaking it in some chemical and getting this
ink off and then printing something new.
What I'm telling you is that's not what's happening here.
This process involves no consumable material whatsoever.
Nothing is being consumed here.
All the magic is happening by leaving the ink on the surface but mutating the ink from one color to another color reversibly.
So, can I ask you a question?
Please, yeah.
I buy one of these books.
Yeah.
I buy one of these.
What are you going to call them?
Is it a book or is it a shell or is it a machine?
What would you call it?
E-book.
Let's call it an e-book or an electron.
Let's say I buy an e-book.
Yeah.
And I can load it with whatever books I want.
Right.
The problems of copyright and how the author's going to be paid, that's for somebody else to figure out.
Well, there's an easy system for that.
The basic idea is...
I think Grasbane writes a gentle madness and he sells 50,000 copies, but all of a sudden people can go... Okay, well, first of all, already on the web, as you know, there's something, last time I looked, more than 10,000 full textbooks.
Yeah, probably all the copyrights probably already... There's probably not a copyright problem.
A fraction of them are things like Shakespeare and so forth.
Others, unfortunately, are still under copyright, but...
The system is the following.
The book itself would have a vast number.
In fact, in that last book, I show, I talk about the technology that will allow all books to be stored.
Okay, so then don't say things that are already in the paper.
Yeah.
Because I just didn't use my time more productively.
Yeah, okay.
All right, so I buy an e-book, and...
And so I gathered, and the paper's going to tell me if my book is 638 pages and it's 44 lines of a smaller type, and you buy a novel that might be 220 pages with a larger type, this little computer's going to figure all this out, so it's... Yes.
But if you only have 200 physical pages in this book, how is it going to make my book a 600-page book fit onto the sheets that are available?
Right.
If there are only 200 pages, obviously, then...
When you get to the end of the 200th page, then it has to rewrite that book.
Then you just have to go back to the beginning.
Right, but the basic idea would be to have a book that's got a sufficiently number of pages that can incorporate, say, most books.
Why not fit Paul Stoyd?
Is it going to replicate the type of the printed person?
Yes, yes.
Right.
In fact, if your eyesight is poor, you can press a button and the type will expand.
It's fully reconfigurable.
But it will look like the actual book.
It'll look like the actual book.
And if there's a certain style of type, as you know, you see... Of course, right.
If this book is printed in German, blah, blah, blah, what you see at the back, this machine is going to do that.
Right.
I mean, there's no substitute for... If you've got a typesetter like Aldous Minutius, who's probably the world's best typesetter, came right after Gutenberg,
I don't think he's ever been vested.
I think that's a lot of what the soul and body of a book is.
This technology is aimed at being able to do that.
The question I have for you is this.
I had lunch
a while ago with Thomas Amos, Dr. Thomas Amos at Widener Library's assistant curator.
He was actually the curator for the Gutenberg Bible, among other things.
And the question that arises is this, what's the advantage of a book?
Let's say you had a single sheet of paper
that had this electronic paper.
And you have two buttons here that you could leaf through all the different pages of the book.
What's the advantage of a real book?
In that paper, the last book, I discussed a little bit my feelings about a real book.
But I should say that many of our sponsors are interested in single-page displays.
As opposed to volume displays.
As opposed to multiple-page displays, right?
Well, when you get a chance to read that paper, why don't you let me know what you think about it.
Well, the title of the last book refers to what?
The last printed book?
The title of the last book refers to the fact, to the idea that this would be, since this is every book, this would be the last book.
Now, do you honestly pursue this?
We honestly pursue that.
Now, in order to
In order for that to be a reality, it's got to be very cheap, it's got to look very good, and it's got to have vastly expanded utility over a normal book.
And we think that our technology can bring all three of those together.
And is the work on this at such a state to project when you might have a prototype?
Yeah, I'd say probably on the order of two or three years.
Really?
Have you actually seen marketing it at that point?
Well, I don't know.
I don't know.
We're working on a lot of different projects right now for this electronics.
What's the most important thing?
What's the most difficult thing right now with ink?
The ink chemistry just recently came together.
That chemistry that I showed you.
It's a matter of making a very high-quality display.
I didn't tell you about it.
There's another half to this project.
Well, actually, we don't.
I've got a meeting downtown at noon, unfortunately.
What time are you going to split?
About 5, 10 minutes?
Yeah, let's say about 10 minutes.
Well, let's also say let's get back together at another point.
Let's do that.
I'd love to.
What I'll be able to do now, I've seen the place, and let me
Listen to this tape.
Yeah.
Read your stuff.
And this is where I go to London next week.
I go to the New British Library and see Paul Gaze.
Sorry, who's the publisher?
Holt.
Holt, right.
The same publisher of a copy of the book that I'll be sending you this afternoon.
Correct.
Under contract.
It will be published in 1999.
Yeah.
Tremendous.
Well, I've got to tell you, this sounds like one of the best books to have heard.
I work, you know.